---
layout: post
title: "Normalisation of Exceptionalism"
author: "Ankit Solanki"
permalink: /exceptionalism/

---


**An extended essay on behavioral psychology in the education system.**

<br>

It may have been possible that I am introducing this phrase very new, thus I am going to explain its meaning as carefully as I can. According to my usage, whenever a distinct society normalizes the exceptional behavior occurring in it, a new member introduced in that society shall be perpetuated with similar notions of expectations.

Going through the phrase description, some terms need to be defined with more clarification. I introduced 'a distinct society' term in the beginning, essentially, it shall be applied to a society as behaviors of humans without a society will be non-related just because the consequence of their actions will be non-explicitly and non-implicitly affiliated with other humans. Just for giving an intuition about such a society, consider two aliens trying to converse after one of them arrived at the planet of the other one through some inter-galactic traveling past a wormhole. It will be hard for them to converse given the absolute lack of a language known to one another, even considering a situation where some sign or verbal langauge is mutli-universally accepted, the circumstances in which one alien will be starting a discussion with - "Hey bruh!, you know, I have a degree with 2 capital letter and technology term in it, and I have been studying in some biological anatomy subject on creatures obtainable in our universe or applied some physcial constraints on some phenonmenon according to the physics law in our universe", such information will be irrelevant since the physical laws and anatomy of creatures in two different universe will be supposedly unknowingly distinct.

I hope this example has given you some clear intuition about the topic. It may have been too unrelated to what I was speaking! see? So, that explains 'a distinct society' in which the behavior of similar colleagues can have direct effect or indirect consequence on one another. 

Now I will try to employ the term 'exceptional behaviors' in the most general way possible, but at the same time, my insight when giving examples will be most likely titled towards the age group of 18-30 with their intellectual thoughts manipulated within society. Just for clearing the term society; it can aim to any culture, group, or an aggregate of people living together in a more or less ordered community.

An exceptional behavior is a notion where a person excelles with an unusual amount. Defining abstract terms can be perplexing since the words used in such definition are in themselves should be defined for more clear meaning. I think it would more beneficial and understandable if I put such behaviors through some examples. Let's consider a society of entrepreneurship, a person who has worked relentlessly most of his time, and created business solutions to problems with more rate of success than failure and touched many lives would seem to be an extraordinary entrepreneur. I would see Elon Musk as such a person. If you don't know him, he is the CEO of Tesla and SpaceX. His strong work ethic and visionary decisions are as powerful as they sound.

I should here mention that trying to be a successful entrepreneur is not an unappreciated behavior. I can't be certain about etiquettes implied to such extraordinary aims. This virtual image to see ourselves at such well-appreciated position with a well-harmonized lifespan is an admired conduct. Also, I am certain that a behavior like Musk or an excellent entrepreneur is not a normal behavior in the respective society, and it must not be seen as the base level of success or in general good harmony life, to begin with. Trying to normalize this type of highly improbable behavior have the severe brutal consequence which we shall be discussing in the forthcoming paragraphs.

The intense urge in people to avoid a life with average accomplishments and tend to achieve excessive performances with the premise that a life with low deeds, up to a base level, is not a life worth living again. This mentality of subjectively judging the life works in past and in near future relative to the exceptional behaviors among society is really absurd to cope up to. Indeed not saying that to attain the higher appreciated positions is absurd but to say that the perception of seeing it as the only way to live a good life and compare it with some highly improbable events is not even absurd but a great fallacy in today's education system that has been injected into our body after our so-called social evolution within society. 

Even though I think that theorizing such an abstract issue through the semantics of philosophy would get the mind of the reader to the fundamental approach to such an issue but I would relate the practicality of such matter every now and then by the education system, as I can explain it better this way. Presumably, I will direct my aim towards some minimal points to get to my lines.

I have seen Indian-media showing the brilliant performance of students in different boards and exams. Why don't they? Their parents and society are really proud of them. What do elders discuss among them when they meet? the gold medal of their 7-year-old son in the inter-school 200m race? the -A performance of their daughter in Mathematics? How did his son argue with them that he doesn't want to go to the party and want to study? I am not sure about it, but I could take my chance. And if they don't, then they should, well the appreciation among the social circle will inspire their kid to achieve more and look for better future. But as much as this seems a positive trait to enroll through there exists some intense consequence of it that are harming the whole society to such in-depth roots that trying to get out is not possible, there doesn't even exist a hope because we are a social animal and till which we realize that we are in a cage, it appears to be the time of death.

The intense consequence that I was talking about, let me give an elaborate argument on it. Almost all of the people live a life of constant jealousy from the person who is a bit superior to us. Not because we see want to be better or we want to grow, but because we see a sense of achievement in such person which we can't see in ourselves. We get the feeling of left behind, a kind of average in our stream. The feeling of being an average shook the crap out of us, probably because we have chased the superiority all our life. When we were in kindergarten we wanted to be the guy who draws better hut than us, when we were in middle school we wanted to be the guy who was best in video games, when we were in high school we wanted to be the guy who manages to keep up the high score and gets all the girls, when we were in college we wanted to be the guy who is 6'2 hunk dude, captain of the football team and dances with the hottest girlfriend in campus, now when we are in office we wanted to be the guy who manages his time the-best-of-the-best, who is going to have dinner with the boss today evening, and who is unapologetically workaholic, when we will be old we will be want to be the person with the complete set of 32 teeths, when we will be lying on death-bed we still want to be the guy with no regrets. You always so want to be someone else, we actually forget who we already are. The fact that we lived a life always looking forward to being a different person, we lost the most important fact that we are a multi-celled organism made up of discrete set of chemical composition and as Albert Camus mentions, we are and will always be free, even though we think we are attached to something and somewhere, we always are the creature that has the option to take the step and define the work. It certainly is possible that we actually are the guy someone else looks to but do we even need to think that way, more importantly, can we think like that? Can we even think that there is a possibility that we are someone else's 'the guy he wanted to be'? Why do we always want to achieve a bit more? Is the satisfaction shows our inner extension grow? Well, you can think that and make yourself feel good, but it is not true. We always lack a point of contentment because for us where we are will invariably be a level under the superior, and since our perception sees it as an average less, we will always fail to achieve a consistency of happiness or satisfaction, as the way you perceive it.

Been the guy who draws a picture, been a guy who plays video games, been a guy who scores good marks and have good friends, been a guy living an energetic life in college, being a guy good at his work, to be a guy who have a mouth to eat and eyes to ponder, to be a good who lived a healthy life. Such views which analyse the perception in which we see ourself as an independent person in which we adore what we do because indeed that's the reason why we do it, the freedom in our hands to satisfy with what we are and to not to compare the accomplishments, life goals, uncertainties, and skills. When there exists no other person whom we want to be when we see an accomplishment in our livelihood is the premise to accept the existence and the righteous pathway to being in time. This may be possible that there is no meaning of life and we may not have a twisting end in the last scenes of a movie and our life doesn't turn around to make us a millionaire, the absurdity can always be there but we won't be making a fool of ours to be someone, and we sure can adapt our existence to be some hammered nail in the canvas of fidelity.
