---
layout: post
title: "Alone"
author: "Ankit Solanki"
permalink: /alone/
---

Reaching to a point in life where everything seems absurd to do, where we lost the point in doing anything at all, this heavy thought with a pounding heart has its difficulties in it enwrapped with the cold feel of knowing our existence to yourself.

> This poem has the title 'Alone' and it touches the boundaries of <b>absurdism</b> by revealing hints to our own existence in loneliness.

<br>

It's a blizzard cold night outside, <br>
And I'm alone same as any other day; <br>
A cold wind just crawled down the door, <br>
I don't feel cold anymore, I should be sure! <br>
Perhaps I heard a long scream, Perhaps I made that up, <br>
Just to accompany me, in my loneliness; <br>
I can hear my heartbeat's echo, <br>
I guess I am alone after all. <br>
<br>
<hr style="opacity: 0.1;">

My mind got tired of wandering, <br>
Perhaps found no-one to inter-act, after all; <br>
I can see the air, the word, the world, <br>
But I couldn't feel it; I guess, I am me, after all. <br>
They say I should be like them, <br>
I guess, I said it to myself, just to talk; <br>
My heart stopped several times, <br>
I guess, he got tired of beating, after all. <br>
<br>
<hr style="opacity: 0.1;">

Felt someone at my door, <br>
Glad I don't have a home! <br>
I Guess, I should talk to my loneliness now, after all. <br>
<hr style="opacity: 0.1;">
<br>
I saw a picture of myself as a kid, laughing! <br>
I guess I was lying that time, I don't do it anymore, <br>
I guess, he wasn't me! He'd have pity on me! <br>
Perhaps, I should stop writing now, <br>
I guess I'm not even loyal to me, after all. <br>
<br>